.\" Manpage for backup_btrfs.
.TH man 8 "03 Oct 2019" "1.0" "backup_btrfs man page"
.SH NAME
backup_btrfs \- Manage btrfs subvolume backups 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backup_btrfs
add --name \fI\,NAME\fR --source \fI\,SUBVOLUME\fR --snapshot-dir \fI\,DIR\fR --backup-device \fI\,DEV\fR --backup-dir \fI\,DIR\fR [--snapshots \fI\,NUMBER\fR]
.br
.B backup_btrfs
modify --name \fI\,NAME\fR --source \fI\,SUBVOLUME\fR --snapshot-dir \fI\,DIR\fR --backup-device \fI\,DEV\fR --backup-dir \fI\,DIR\fR [--snapshots \fI\,NUMBER\fR]
.br
.B backup_btrfs
remove \fI\,NAME\fR...
.br
.B backup_btrfs
list
.br
.B backup_btrfs
run [--noumount] \fI\,NAME\fR...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
backup_btrfs is a program for automating btrfs-subvolume based backups.
.SH OPTIONS
\fB\,--backup-device\fR \fI\,DEV\fR
.br
.IP
Specify the device to backup to, must be an absolute path to a block device or a UUID. The program will automatically detect if the backup device is a LUKS-container or a regular partition.
.P
\fB\,--backup-dir\fR \fI\,DIR\fR
.br
.IP
Set the target folder on the backup drive where the backup snapshots should be created, must be a relative path.
.P
\fB\,--name\fR \fI\,NAME\fR
.br
.IP
Set the name for the backup if being used with the "add"-command. Every backup needs to have a name as identifier. A backup is run by appending its name to the "run" command. When applied to the "modify"-command, this option will specify which backup is to be modified.
.P
\fB\,--snapshot-dir\fR \fI\,DIR\fR
.br
.IP
Specify a directory where the snapshots of the source subvolume will be saved. The directory will be created if it doesn't exist. When used via the "modify"-command, the contents of the old snapshot directory will not be moved to the new location. The Argument must be an absolute path.
.P
\fB\,--snapshots\fR \fI\,NUMBER\fR
.br
.IP
Set the amount of snapshots backup_btrfs will preserve. If this number is set to n, backup_btrfs will keep the n newest snapshots after running a backup, older snapshots will be deleted both on the source drive and the backup drive. NUMBER must be an integer between 1 and 255.
\fB\,--source\fR \fI\,SUBVOLUME\fR
.br
.IP
Specify the btrfs subvolume to backup, must be an absolute path.
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
btrfs(8), btrfs-subvolume(8), btrfs-send(8), btrfs-receive(8) 
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Jörg Walter
